in this lesson we're going to explore
what is authentication and what is
authorization
if we look at the skills assessed we're
now diving into this new category of
describing identity governance privacy
and compliance features
and starting off looking at the azure
identity services so again this start of
authentication and authorization and
then we'll dive into exactly what what
is azure ad
what is the functionality and usage of
azure ad
and then describe the functionality and
usage of things like conditional access
multi-factor authentication and single
sign-on
so we're going to dive into all of those
various things
so authentication and authorization
so we'll often hear about authentication
you may also hear this as auth
n
so authentication is all about the idea
that i want to establish and verify
the identity of a person
or it could be a service applications
have identities to enable them to
interact with other resources
this is all about proving
that person or service really is who
they say they are so this is all about
validating
identity
that's the goal of authentication and we
can think about doing that validation in
a number of ways
historically that validation was done by
something we know
we're used to the idea that we have some
secret for example a password
now this is evolving and just using
passwords it's really not something we
like to just focus on today we think
about stronger authentication
we think also about well something
we are so this could be something like
biometric
this could be our fingerprint it could
be that 3d vector of our face
it could be something we have
so we have could be some kind of token
it could also be our pc itself we hear
about things like hello for business
which
is part of this trusted platform module
in our laptop or computer
that has a key that is known only to
that machine maybe we unlock that key
with
a biometric or maybe a pin which is
something we know as well
so authentication is proving the
identity you really are who you say you
are
now authorization
comes afterwards
so we've proven who we are you'll also
hear this called auth z
now it's about well
what
we can do
so i've proven who i am
now
as that identity
what am i allowed to do
in azure we always think about
role-based access control
the idea that there's some role
and it's given to an identity
at some kind of scope
so the pattern is i have to prove i am
who i say i am through authentication
and then once i'm authenticated
then that identity has certain
privileges certain rights so that's the
authorization of what i can do